---
layout: post
title: Just, ride the wave, I say to myself
date: 2019-09-22 14:00:00 +0300
description: You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. # Add post description (optional)
img: GoldenRatioSmall.jpg # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [Personal]
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This past weekend I watched [Decoding Bill Gates](https://www.netflix.com/title/80184771?source=35), a new *'docuseries'* on Netflix. I've always enjoyed listening/watching/reading anything related to creators and their early beginnings but after finishing up the series I was left with mixed emotions, and for lack of better words, ***it really fucked me up mentally!*** After some reflecting through out this week, I started to understand and unpack, it wasn't the content it's self that overwhelmed me but more so the point in life at which I am currently at. The many other times I've watched this sort of thing, It's always been form a POV of "I can't wait to get there one day" but this weekend it dawned on me that I am no longer on the "other side", this is it, the 'day' is here, and well it feels as if I am not up to par. I'll explain: 

> “When you’re young, your potential is infinite. You might do anything, really. You might be Einstein, you might be DiMaggio. Then you get to an age when what you might be gives way to what you have been. You weren’t Einstein. You weren’t anything. That’s a bad moment.” --Confessions of a Dangerous Mind
{: style="text-align: center"}

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Things have recently gone pretty well for me or so I'd like to think(more on that later), especially when compared to where I was and how I felt just a couple of years ago. After graduating HS, I went on to attend Texas A&M, and that’s around the time frame I'd like to consider the "start of my journey" when I became self-conscious, if you will. I arrived to college station with a whole lot of arrogance/ignorance. I had this mindset that I had picked one of the best schools in the state(or at least the best one I could manage to get into) and had graduated top 10% of my class. Therefore I was guaranteed a secured path to success, all I had to do was get that diploma. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; It quickly became clear that I was not as smart as I thought I was. For so long my academic goals were focused on meeting the criteria to be categorized as smart but had never went past that, I had never truly focused on the process of acquiring, retaining or much less synthesizing knowledge.
This had been much easier to pull off before for several reasons, the circumstances/requirements/standards that come along with K-12 education. Essentially I had allowed my self to create and believe in something I really wasn't, coming to sense with this(or at least trying to) profoundly shook things up, followed up with a bit of depression/escapism/being a first generation student and a couple of bad habits thrown in the mix created the perfect recipe for the rocky road that was to come the following years. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; My first semester of college ended with a Q drop and failing grades, I had never dealt with academic failure of this magnitude. It was easier to dwell in self pity than try and understand much less fix what was causing me to fail, even if deep inside I knew what the issues were. This created a domino effect of failing class after class, each semester seemed to get harder but truly I found it harder to care. Eventually it all caught up to me and by the end of the fall semester of junior year, I found my self writing an appeal letter to the CS Department in order to retain my spot. The appeal was denied and I was given no other option but to choose another major and move on. Long before I started college I had settled on a career as a software developer, the ability to create something out of nothing and have it reach millions was the ultimate medium onto which I could unleash my ideas. While my experience within school had tarnished and made me doubt the idea, it was the one reason why I was still there, choosing another major was **not an option**. Initially it felt like my whole world had crumbled, from a young age my parents had instilled in me that graduating form college was the ultimate goal and the foundation that would allow me to reach my dreams. Knowing how much they had sacrificed to get me up to this point and for me to simply throw it all away was unbearable. Looking back it’s clear that there was really no other outcome considering the way I was managing myself at the time but nonetheless I was devastated. 


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; While I had been failing classes for a while, the association of me and perusing a higher education was present, *I had something to hold on to, I could at least say I was trying*. Going back home felt like officially accepting failure, I couldn't face it and for that same reason it was easier to come up with excuses as to why stying in College Station, an "educational environment", was a much better option. There were more opportunities and structure to continue developing my programming skills, I could walk into classes, career fairs, office hours etc. So I decided to ***drop out and drop in***, I figured that I would develop my portfolio as a self-taught software developer and would eventually try and land a job with that. This was much easier said than done, while there was a much bigger sense of urgency to ***get my shit together*** now that I had dropped out, the habits and routines or lack of, that had lead me to drop out didn't just vanish. The following months were filled with moments of inspiration and desperation. I started taking online programing courses, I would drive down to Houston for programming meet-ups, and became obsessed with self-help books. Unbeknownst to me dropping out was painful but also healing, it allowed me to step away form the cycle of constant failure I had created and the guilt that came with it, it was an easy way to leave behind everything that I had screwed up and start over. This allowed me to rekindle my interest in programming, I could focus on the subjects I found interesting and go at my own pace, overall it made it easier to keep going. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This continued on for about a year, and while I'd like to pinpoint the time at which my skills drastically improved to where I was able to obtain a job solely on my skill set,  ***I can't***. It was truly a matter of luck that I managed to get out of the situation I had put my self in. Nearing the end of that year a friend(big s/o to Oscar) forwarded me an email from a petroleum engineer he had previously interviewed with. The guy had plans to create a software for the O&G industry and was in search of developers. I gave him a call and quickly explained my situation, surprisingly to me he wanted to follow up with an in-person interview. In the interview I was able to better explain my situation, showcase some of the small projects I had been working on, he roughly explained his idea and I suggested ways to implement it. We agreed that he would get back to me within a week with his final decision, a week passed and he messaged me stating that unfortunately he would not be able to extend a job offer at the time. All I could think of was that getting another opportunity like this would be extremely difficult, so I offered to work for free, to shadow one of the developers he did hire, with no commitment of hiring me, but simply to be able to further develop my skill set. In a miraculous event he retracted his previous decision and told be I'd be starting on January 2nd 2018! I would be under a trail period where afterwards he would determine if I stayed in with the company, but nonetheless ***I HAD MANAGED TO GET A JOB AS A SOFTWARE DEVELOPER WTF***

> “I think if you do something and it turns out pretty good, then you should go do something else wonderful, not dwell on it for too long. Just figure out what’s next.” --Steve Jobs
{: style="text-align: center"}

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Fast-forward a year and a half later, I am still with the company, have under gone several ups and downs, even had a few arguments with my boss(thats a whole other post), but more importantly I have expanded my abilities not only within programming but also business development further than I could have ever imagined, a tremendous learning experience. Now how does all of this exactly relate with what I started off this entire post? remember the Bill Gates *'docuseries'* I mentioned earlier that fucked me up, well in simple terms, ***this is not enough!!!***. Before I continue or give the wrong impression(hopefully I haven't already), I would like thank my parents, sister, roommates and friends that supported me those harsh months after dropping out, I constantly look back at that time and I was in a pretty dark place, I am extremely grateful for their friendship, love and support, with out them I know I would not be here today. No back the reason for writing this, see after watching the series I realized that ever since I got this job like whether I like to admit it or not I've been riding the high that **I was able to get a job!**, something that I simply made harder to achieve through poor choices. Not to say that I'm not grateful or proud of what I've been able accomplished but long before I screwed up in college I had dreams of one day starting **my own company** of creating things that as Steve Jobs said would **"leave a dent on the universe"**. I've in a way let the achievement of getting a job overshadow my original goals, I need to focus on the big picture while being able to continuously connect the smaller dots to get there. To focus more on the things I haven’t yet thought about and how I will make them happen. To embrace the actual/bigger challenges ahead of me and BE MORE FEARLESS 

> You take a loss? Shit, don't cry about it, just embrace it
Minor setback for major comeback, that's my favorite  
--Kendrick Lamar

This is something I've been meaning to write, really since I dropped out, but whether it was because I felt ashamed or insecure I never published it. Being able to look back I never imagined this would be the outcome, this entire journey(which barley begins) has showed me that the ability to accomplish anything lies within the path that I allow to create for my self. More importantly it has given me the courage and strength to embrace the failures to come(which I hope are a lot).
{: style="text-align: center"}

> ### Look, ready for whatever comes
> ### I hope for the best, I taste the peace and pray it never leave my tongue
> ### But yet, before long, the feelings done
> ### Perhaps I was foolish, just like the boy that prays to only see the sun
> ### Maybe, life happens like tides
> ### One minute you're low and feelin' shallow, then all of a sudden you rise
> ### Just, ride the wave, I say to myself
> ### --Legendary by Joey Bada$$ ft. J.Cole 
{: style="text-align: center"}

<p align="center"><iframe width="100%" height="50" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_IGl8Mah_0I?start=143" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="false"></iframe></p>>
{: style="text-align: center"}